PHP created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1994
PHP appeard in the market in 1995
PHP stands for Hypertext Preprocessor.
PHP is an interpreted language, i.e., there is no need for compilation.
PHP is faster than other scripting languages, for example, ASP and JSP.
PHP is a server-side scripting language, which is used to manage the dynamic content of the website.
PHP can be embedded into HTML.
PHP is an object-oriented language.
PHP is an open-source scripting language.
PHP is simple and easy to learn language.


Why use PHP ?
PHP is a server-side scripting language, which is used to design the dynamic web applications with MySQL database.
It handles dynamic content, database as well as session tracking for the website.
You can create sessions in PHP.
It can access cookies variable and also set cookies.
It helps to encrypt the data and apply validation.
PHP supports several protocols such as HTTP, POP3, SNMP, LDAP, IMAP, and many more.
Using PHP language, you can control the user to access some pages of your website.
As PHP is easy to install and set up, this is the main reason why PHP is the best language to learn.
PHP can handle the forms, such as - collect the data from users using forms, save it into the database, and return useful information to the user. For example - Registration form.


PHP Features: 
Performance:
Open Source:
Familiarity with syntax:
Embedded:
Platform Independent:
Database Support:
Error Reporting:
Loosely Typed Language:
Web servers Support:
Security:
Control:
A Helpful PHP Community:
Case Sensative:


Difference between echo and print

echo

echo is a statement, which is used to display the output.
echo can be used with or without parentheses.
echo does not return any value.
We can pass multiple strings separated by comma (,) in echo.
echo is faster than print statement.

print

print is also a statement, used as an alternative to echo at many times to display the output.
print can be used with or without parentheses.
print always returns an integer value, which is 1.
Using print, we cannot pass multiple arguments.
print is slower than echo statement.